The Norfolk Southern Railway (reporting mark NS [3]) is a Class I railroad in the United States; began in 1982 and 1990. With headquarters in Norfolk, Virginia, the company operates 36,200 route miles in 22 eastern states, the District of Columbia,[4] and has rights in Canada from Buffalo to Toronto and over the Albany to Montreal route.[5][dubious – discuss][6] NS is responsible for maintaining 29,000 miles, with the remainder being operated under trackage rights from other parties responsible for maintenance.[7] The common commodity hauled on the railroad is coal from mines in Indiana, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. The railroad also offers the largest intermodal network in eastern North America.NS #9903 GE C40-9W along with two other units head west from NS Elkhart YardNS 39J lead unit NS #8372 GE C40-8W with 5 others are late leaving Kalamazoo due to weather and delays from AmtrakNS #3524 GE B32-8 at NS Hinman YardNS #3067 GP40-2 with it new paint scheme sits in the snow at Botford YardA NS GP38-2 in Dover, Delaware, with depot in backgroundSOU 4610 working train GD01 in Dalton, Georgia, on January 19, 2006A NS GP38-2 running long hood forward through Ridgewood, New Jersey,on NS H07 the reverse H8K on the Southern Tier and NJ Transit Main Line on March 1, 2008A GP50 approaches a level crossing in Charlotte, North Carolina on June 22, 2005A GE C40-9W leads a train on October 12, 2008Front view
NS is a major transporter of domestic and export coal. The railroad's major sources of the mineral are located in: Pennsylvania's Cambria and Indiana counties, as well as the Monongahela Valley; West Virginia; and the Appalachia regions of Virginia, Kentucky, and Tennessee. In Pennsylvania, NS also receives coal through interchange with R.J. Corman Railroad/Pennsylvania Lines at Cresson, Pennsylvania, originating in the "Clearfield Cluster". NS's export of West Virginia bituminous coal begins transport on portions of the well-engineered former Virginian Railway and the former N&W double-tracked line in Eastern Virginia to its Lambert's Point coal pier on Hampton Roads at Norfolk. Coal transported by NS is thus exported to steel mills and power plants around the world. The company is also a major transporter of auto parts and completed vehicles. It operates intermodal container and TOFC (trailer on flat car) trains, some in conjunction with other railroads. NS was the first railway to employ roadrailers, which are highway truck trailers with interchangeable wheel sets.
The Norfolk Southern Railway's parent Norfolk Southern Corporation is a Norfolk, Virginia-based parent company. Norfolk Southern Corporation was incorporated on July 23, 1980 in the Commonwealth of Virginia and is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbols NSC. The primary business function of Norfolk Southern Corporation is the rail transportation of raw materials, intermediate products, and finished goods across the Southeast, East, and Midwest United States. The corporation further facilitates transport to the remainder of the United States through interchange with other rail carriers while also serving overseas transport needs by serving several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. As of October 1, 2014 Norfolk Southern Corporation's total public stock value was slightly over $34.5 billion.
